#Intro 


#

Network File System is a distributed File System protocol primarily used by the  
UNIX family of Operating Systems. It allows users to mount, access and
manipulate disk partitions or directories on a remote computer, as if the
said partition or directory was a part of the local machine. Network File
System was developed as an open standard by SUN Microsystems in 1984.

NFS is widely used in Local Area Networks to conveniently share data and
provides users the ability to access their files across the network.
Sometimes, a directory access protocol such as LDAP is combined with NFS
allowing the users to login to their user account from any computer on the 
network.

The main drawback of NFS is the slow read and write speeds it offers with
the default setup. Though NFS offers a number of parameters in its
configuration files to  increase the performance, these either do not
affect the performance much or increases the chance of data corruption and
loss. Thus the users are forced to run the system with the default, slow
configuration.

In many environments, this leads to lost human productivity as interactive
computing becomes impossible and Operating System needing access to data
on NFS share often ends up freezing the whole computer. This also
bottlenecks the CPU of the computer, thereby wasting precious computing
resources.

This paper proposes a number of changes to the Network File System protocol
which increases the performance of Network File System while reducing
the risk of data corruption and loss. The proposed system also ensures
decent speeds in congested network as it consumes less bandwidth than the 
original NFS implementation and protects the ability of the NFS server to
provide access to files during period of peak network activity.
