Network File System is a distributed file system originally developed by
SUN Microsystems in 1984. A distributed file system differ from normal file
systems in the sense that they operate over the network and allow sharing of
storage resources. NFS was developed as an open standard. It was initially
implemented for UNIX but is now compatible with a wide array of Operating
Systems. NFS has gone through four major revisions, with the first publicly
available version being v2. All the experiments for this research have been
conducted using NFS v4.2

NFS uses the Client-Server architecture. The NFS Server makes available a
disk partition or directory on the network which can then be mounted just
like a local storage device by the clients. For applications running on the
client machine, NFS is just another file system and requires zero
modifications inorder to work. This is made possible by an abstraction
layer called Virtual File System or VFS. VFS defines what operations can be
done on the filesystem regardless of the file system type. When an
application deals with the UNIX file system, it is actually dealing with
VFS. VFS receives data regarding the target file from the application, then
hands it over to the actual file system, which in this case is NFS.

Once NFS receives the data, it is transfered to the server with the help of
Remote Procedure Call (RPC) in External Data Representation (XDR) format.
RPC allows the NFS client to execute instructions on the server. XDR is a
data representation standard that provides a uniform data format which can
be understood by a variety of computers. This is one of the factors that
provide NFS with cross platform compatibilty.

NFS Figure

