All the benchmarks for this research study have been done using NFS v4.2.
The NFS environment encompassing the client and server, was emulated using
virtual machines, with the Oracle VirtualBox hypervisor. Virtual Machines 
(VMs) provide a convenient method of simulating target hardware and 
networking infrastructure. The VirtualBox hypervisor was run on RedHat 
Enterprise Linux 7.2, with the hardware being a powerful Xeon workstation
(HP-Z640) to ensure the VMs were not bottlenecked during benchmarks. The VMs
were equipped with an AMD PCnet-FAST III 100 Mbps network adapter which was
bridged to the network, so that each VM represented a real machine on the 
network. Network Address Translation (NAT) was not used as it consumes CPU
resources, which could in turn affect benchmarks. The NFS server and client
VMs were set up to run Debian 9.3 (Stable) as their OS. Debian is a heavily
tested distribution that ships with highly stable packages. Debian was 
chosen so as to minimize the chance of bugs affecting the benchmarks.

The benchmarking tools used include Bonnie ++, Phoronix Test Suite/iozone,
Phoronix Test Suite/dbench, Stand-alone Dbench and the "dd" utility. dd was
used to benchmark NFS performance per client and to cancel out the effects
of client side read/write caches. Dbench is a powerful benchmarking tool
designed to test the performance of NFS and SMB systems. It is capable of
emulating upto 512 clients. All the benchmarks were done with Dbench tool
emulating 6 clients. Higher number of clients not used to avoid choking the
server. Benchmarking was often done through proper combination of all these
tools. When eliminating client side cache effect was required, dd was run
with "conv=fdatasync bs=1K" options to flush data from cache after write of
each Kilobyte.
