In server side synchronous mode, the server waits till the data has been 
written to its disk before returning the acknowledgment message to the 
client. Server side asynchronous mode changes the behaviour of NFS server 
such that it returns the acknowledgment message as soon as the client 
completes the transfer of data to server's buffer. This has tremendous
impact on the performance of the system.

An NFS system with server side asynchronous mode was benchmarked with the
client side options in /etc/fstab set as [rw, sync, hard, intr 0 0] and
server side options in /etc/exports set as 
[rw, no_root_squash, no_subtree_check, async]. The test conducted using
dbench resulted in 28.72 MB/s, a huge boost in performance, compared with
side synchronous mode, which returned 0.94 MB/s in dbench. The performance
graph obtained has been shown in Fig 3.

Figure: Performance with client side sync and server side async

Benchmarks were also conducted with dd utility, with a block size of 1KB,
file size of 2GB and fdatasync option turned on. The aim was to measure the
worst case performance of server side asynchronous mode. The benchmark
resulted in 7.1 MB/s which was still significantly higher than results
recorded with server side synchronous mode with caching.

The higher performance comes from the fact that the clients no longer have
to wait till the server syncs the data with its disks. Clients can transfer
data to the server's buffer and get on with other tasks such as writing
additiona files. This also means that more number of clients can access the
server in unit time. Still, with the current protocol, it is not advisable
to leave server side async turned on due to the possibility of data loss and
corruption.
